Kimel TIGRlab - general
=======================

`Lab website (GitHub) <http://imaging-genetics.camh.ca/>`__. This is the
most-used website, that has member profiles, information about projects
and tools, etc. It is currently being maintained by Erin.

`Lab website
(CAMH) <https://www.camh.ca/en/science-and-research/institutes-and-centres/campbell-family-mental-health-research-institute/research-focus-campbell-institute/kimel-family-translational-imaging-genetics-lab>`__.
This is our official but bare-bones website on camh.ca (note: currently
under construction). It is currently being updated by Navona.

`Lab meeting <https://tinyurl.com/tigr-presentation>`__ presentation
slides, as well as `lab posters <https://tinyurl.com/tigr-posters>`__,
IMS students' `PAC meetings <https://tinyurl.com/tigr-pac>`__, and
`talks <https://tinyurl.com/tigr-talks>`__ are archived in google drive.

`Lab
calendar <https://calendar.google.com/calendar/b/1/r?tab=oc&pli=1>`__.
Please add events that would be of interest to the group here. Also, if
you're planning time away, add it here so other's know (please note that
this doesn't take the place of clearing time off with Aristotle/Dielle).

`GoToMeeting <https://www.gotomeeting.com/en-ca>`__. We have a
subscription to video conference software. The account is shared with
all lab members, and meetings must be scheduled. Sign-in details are in
PassPack.

`PassPack <https://www.passpack.com/online/>`__. This is our password
manager, and has an always-current collection of links, usernames, and
passwords to a number of platforms that are useful to lab members,
including common email addresses (including the lab listserv
kimel-lab@info2.camh.net, and our tigrlab@camh.ca and tigrlab@gmail.com
email addresses), software (GoToMeeting, Adobe Illustrator, PaperPile),
journal submission websites, and data repositories. Please add and edit
passwords as required. Ask a staff member for up-to-date login
credentials.

Kimel TIGRlab - data management
===============================

`QC Dashboard <srv-dashboard.camhres.ca>`__. The Dashbaord was developed
in the lab to facilitate QA and QC of imaging data. The Dashboard
requires GitHub authentication.

`XNAT <https://xnat.imaging-genetics.camh.ca/app/template/Login.vm>`__.
XNAT is our imaging database. All of the imaging data that we manage is
stored in XNAT, in addition to our file system.

`REDCap <https://edc.camhx.ca/redcap/>`__. We are increasingly using
REDCap for non-imaging data management. You can request an account via
an IMG request. Please note that the SPINS study is hosted by `AHRC at
St. Mikes <https://redcap.smh.ca/redcap/>`__, and `regulated clinical
trials <https://redcap.camhx.ca/redcap/index.php?action=myprojects>`__
also have their own instance at CAMH.

CAMH general
============

**IT HelpDesk: ext 6011.** Call to report IT issues related to CAMH
infrastructure, such as expired credentials, wifi connectivity, etc.

**Maintenance: ext 3000.** Call to request assistance with cleaning,
garbage removal, repairs, etc.

`IMG
requests <http://insite.camh.ca/forms/admin_forms/61699_it_telecom_services_request_form2011.html>`__.
An IMG request is required for many types of
telecommunications/software/hardware requests. Ask a staff member if
you're unsure before submitting a request.

`Research
portal <http://ishare.camh.ca/sites/rso/Pages/default.aspx>`__. Includes
links for room bookings, travel preauths, grant documents, etc.

`CAMH Secure File Transfer (SFT) <filetransfer.camh.ca>`__ allows has
strong encryption, automatic receipt notification, and transfer of up to
2GB.
